



wimse                                                         J. Salowey
Internet-Draft                                                    Venafi
Intended status: Informational                              Y. Rosomakho
Expires: 22 August 2024                                                 
                                                           H. Tschofenig
                                                                 Siemens
                                                        19 February 2024


  Workload Identity in a Multi System Environment (WIMSE) Architecture
                    draft-salowey-wimse-arch-latest

Abstract

   TODO Abstract

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Workload Identity in
   Multi System Environments Working Group mailing list
   (wimse@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/wimse/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/jsalowey/wimse-arch.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 22 August 2024.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Use Cases
   4.  Architecture
   5.  Security Considerations
     5.1.  Threat Model
       5.1.1.  Traffic Interception
       5.1.2.  Information Disclosure
       5.1.3.  Workload Compromise
     5.2.  Mitigating Token Theft
   6.  IANA Considerations
   7.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   TODO Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Use Cases

4.  Architecture

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Threat Model

5.1.1.  Traffic Interception

   Workloads communicating within an an applications may face different
   threats to traffic interception in different deployments.  In many
   deployments security controls are deployed for internal
   communications at lower layers to reduce the risk of traffic
   observation and modification for network communications.  When a
   security layer such as TLS is deployed in these environments the
   protection is usually hop-by-hop rather than end-to-end.  Where TLS
   or other protection mechanisms terminate, information is left in the
   clear and information may be disclosed or modified.

5.1.2.  Information Disclosure

   Observation and interception of network traffic is not the only means
   of disclosure in these systems.  Other vectors of information leakage
   is through disclosure in log files and other observability and
   troubleshooting mechanisms.  For example, an application may log the
   contents of HTTP headers containing JWT bearer tokens.  The
   information in this logs may be made available to other systems with
   less stringent access controls which may result in this token falling
   into an attackers hands who then uses it to compromise a system.

5.1.3.  Workload Compromise

   Even the most well-designed and implemented workloads may contain
   security flaws that allow an attacker to gain limited or full
   compromise.  For example, a server side request forgery may result in
   the ability for an attacker to force the workload to make requests of
   other parts of a system even though the rest of the workload
   functionality may be unaffected.  An attacker with this advantage may
   be able to utilize privileges of the compromised workload to attack
   other parts of the system.  Therefore it is important that
   communicating workloads apply the principle of least privilege
   through security controls such as authorization.

5.2.  Mitigating Token Theft

6.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

7.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   Joseph Salowey
   Venafi
   Email: joe@salowey.net


   Yaroslav Rosomakho


   Hannes Tschofenig
   Siemens
   Email: hannes.tschofenig@gmx.net
